README.md, before:

# TuyaBOT LLM 🤖️️️️

Creator: John Mario Montoya Zapata 👨‍💻

## Version history:
| User                      | Version | date       |
|---------------------------|---------|------------|
| John Mario Montoya Zapata | 0.1.0   | 2025-02-28 |
|                           |         |            |

## Description 📚
TuyaBot-LLM is a chatbot based on a [RAG](https://www.databricks.com/glossary/retrieval-augmented-generation-rag) architecture, which uses an large language model (LLM), the [unsloth/Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/unsloth/Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct) from meta, and the web information available from the financial company [TUYA S.A](https://www.tuya.com.co/yo-tengo) to answer questions related to its products and services.

## Table of contents 📋
1. [Demo: How to interact with the local LLM](#model-for-default-prediction-block-diagram)
2. [Repository structure](#repository-structure)
3. [Cloning this repository](#cloning-this-repository)
4. [Setting up a virtual environment](#setting-up-a-virtual-environment)

## Demo: How to interact with the local LLM 🤖️️️️

![GIF DEMO](/reports/figures/demo-gif-ezgif.com-crop.gif)

## Repository structure. 🗂️

This project structure was partially influenced by the [Cookiecutter Data Science project](https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/) and [reproducible-model](https://github.com/cmawer/reproducible-model) repository.

Check this [post](https://www.jeremyjordan.me/ml-projects-guide/) by Jeremy Jordan for get guidelines on managing ML projects.

Other resources.
- Books
    - [Clean Machine Learning Code](https://leanpub.com/cleanmachinelearningcode)

```
├── LICENSE
|
├── README.md                        <- You are here
||
├── app/                             <- Folder to store the API that exposes the model
|
├── credentials/                     <- Folder to store credentials files
|
├── data/                            <- Folder that contains data used or generated
│   ├── external/                    <- Data from third parties (external to the core company of the project)
│   ├── interim/                     <- Data in an intermediate state of processing
│   ├── processed/                   <- Data fully processed and ready to be used in modeling
│   └── raw/                         <- The original, immutable data dump
|
├── docs/                            <- A default Sphinx project; see sphinx-doc.org for details
|
├── models/                          <- Trained and serialized models, model predictions, or model summaries
│   └── mlruns/                      <- Folder to store trained, serialized and tracked models using the MLflow library
|
├── notebooks/                       <- Jupyter notebooks. Naming convention is a number (for ordering),
│                                       the creator's initials, and a short `-` delimited description, e.g.
│                                       `101-jmmz-initial-data-exploration.ipynb`.
|
├── references/                      <- Data dictionaries, manuals, and all other explanatory materials
|
├── reports/                         <- Generated analysis as HTML, PDF, LaTeX, etc
│   ├── figures/                     <- Generated graphics and figures to be used in reporting
│   ├── pdfs/                        <- PDF files for reporting
│   └── logs/                        <- Store some flat file reports concerning the execution of commands by terminal mainly
|
├── tuyabot_llm/             <- Source code for use in this project
│   ├── __init__.py                  <- Makes src a Python module
│   ├── archive/                     <- Old scripts that are removed by restructuring the code. They are kept for future reference
│   ├── data/                        <- Scripts to generate, obtain, clean or load raw data
│   ├── features/                    <- Scripts to turn data into features for modeling
│   ├── models/                      <- Scripts to use trained models to make predictions and to retrain models
│   ├── performance/                 <- Scripts to evaluate the performance of models and to calculate metrics from the trained model 
│   ├── visualization/               <- Scripts to generate evaluation graphs or reports 
│   └── utils/
│      ├── __init__.py
│      └── absolute_paths.py         <- Module for handling absolute path
│
├── queries/                         <- Folder to store .sql files used at some point in the modeling process   
│   ├── develop/                     <- Queries created in bulding process 
│   └── production/                  <- Clean queries used to production
|
├── environment.yml                  <- The environment file for reproducing the analysis environment, e.g.
│                                        generated with `conda env export --from-history --file environment.yml`
|
├── requirements.txt                 <- The requirements file for reproducing the analysis environment, e.g.
│                                        generated with `pip freeze > requirements.txt`
|
├── .gitignore                       <- Gitignore file 
|
├── install.md                       <- Instructions to configure virtual environments and install the package as a distributable 
|
├── main.py                          <- Main file to orchestrate re-trains and execution of source code stored in src folder
|
├── main.ipynb                       <- Like main.py but intended for testing before launching deployments
|
├── setup.py                         <- Defines project metadata, dependencies, and installation requirements for distribution.
|
└── run.sh                           <- Executable with predefined commands to run main.py file on a remote server
```

## Cloning this repository.

- To clone this repository using SSH run the next command in your git console
> `git clone git@github.com:johnma96/tuyabot-llm.git`
- To clone this repository using HTTPS run the next command in your git console
> `git clone https://github.com/johnma96/tuyabot-llm.git`

For more details see [Clone a repository](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/gitlab-basics/start-using-git.html#clone-a-repository).

## Setting up a virtual environment.

In order to not create conflics between your libraries and the requirements libraries for this project, we highly recomend you to create a new virtual environment to install the requirements libraries in there.

**Check out the installation guide [here](/install.md)**

For more details consult:
- Click [here](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) to see how to create a virtual environment in python.
- Click [here](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html) if you are using conda.

### Installing and updating project libraries.
The required libraries are listed in the file [`requirements.txt`](/requirements.txt) or [`environment.yml`](/environment.yml). **Please read [the installation guide](/install.md) information for greater detail.**

Commit message:

Updating info to reproduce in local machine

README.md, after:

# TuyaBOT LLM 🤖️️️️

Creator: John Mario Montoya Zapata 👨‍💻

## Version history:
| User                      | Version | date       |
|---------------------------|---------|------------|
| John Mario Montoya Zapata | 0.1.0   | 2025-02-28 |
|                           |         |            |

## Description 📚
TuyaBot-LLM is a chatbot based on a [RAG](https://www.databricks.com/glossary/retrieval-augmented-generation-rag) architecture, which uses an large language model (LLM), the [unsloth/Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/unsloth/Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct) from meta, and the web information available from the financial company [TUYA S.A](https://www.tuya.com.co/yo-tengo) to answer questions related to its products and services.

## Table of contents 📋
1. [Demo: How to interact with the local LLM](#model-for-default-prediction-block-diagram)
2. [How reproduce in your local machine](#how-reproduce-in-your-local-machine)
3. [Repository structure](#repository-structure)
4. [Cloning this repository](#cloning-this-repository)
5. [Setting up a virtual environment](#setting-up-a-virtual-environment)

## Demo: How to interact with the local LLM 🤖️️️️

![GIF DEMO](/reports/figures/demo-gif-ezgif.com-crop.gif)


## How reproduce in your local machine
1. [Clone the repository](#cloning-this-repository)
2. [Create a virtual environment](#setting-up-a-virtual-environment) and activate it
3. Install dependencies: In bash, use the next commands, Be careful, your GPU shoul support cuda 12.6. [Here](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) to get more information

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
```bash
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu126
```
4. In parent directory run the next command to get the base information
```bash
python main.py make_data
```
5. Run application using the next command
```bash
python app.py
```

## Repository structure. 🗂️

This project structure was partially influenced by the [Cookiecutter Data Science project](https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/) and [reproducible-model](https://github.com/cmawer/reproducible-model) repository.

Check this [post](https://www.jeremyjordan.me/ml-projects-guide/) by Jeremy Jordan for get guidelines on managing ML projects.

Other resources.
- Books
    - [Clean Machine Learning Code](https://leanpub.com/cleanmachinelearningcode)

```
├── LICENSE
|
├── README.md                        <- You are here
|
├── app/                             <- Folder to store the API that exposes the model
|
├── credentials/                     <- Folder to store credentials files
|
├── data/                            <- Folder that contains data used or generated
│   ├── external/                    <- Data from third parties (external to the core company of the project)
│   ├── interim/                     <- Data in an intermediate state of processing
│   ├── processed/                   <- Data fully processed and ready to be used in modeling
│   └── raw/                         <- The original, immutable data dump
|
├── docs/                            <- A default Sphinx project; see sphinx-doc.org for details
|
├── models/                          <- Trained and serialized models, model predictions, or model summaries
│   └── mlruns/                      <- Folder to store trained, serialized and tracked models using the MLflow library
|
├── notebooks/                       <- Jupyter notebooks. Naming convention is a number (for ordering),
│                                       the creator's initials, and a short `-` delimited description, e.g.
│                                       `101-jmmz-initial-data-exploration.ipynb`.
|
├── references/                      <- Data dictionaries, manuals, and all other explanatory materials
|
├── reports/                         <- Generated analysis as HTML, PDF, LaTeX, etc
│   ├── figures/                     <- Generated graphics and figures to be used in reporting
│   ├── pdfs/                        <- PDF files for reporting
│   └── logs/                        <- Store some flat file reports concerning the execution of commands by terminal mainly
|
├── tuyabot_llm/             <- Source code for use in this project
│   ├── __init__.py                  <- Makes src a Python module
│   ├── archive/                     <- Old scripts that are removed by restructuring the code. They are kept for future reference
│   ├── data/                        <- Scripts to generate, obtain, clean or load raw data
│   ├── features/                    <- Scripts to turn data into features for modeling
│   ├── models/                      <- Scripts to use trained models to make predictions and to retrain models
│   ├── performance/                 <- Scripts to evaluate the performance of models and to calculate metrics from the trained model 
│   ├── visualization/               <- Scripts to generate evaluation graphs or reports 
│   └── utils/
│      ├── __init__.py
│      └── absolute_paths.py         <- Module for handling absolute path
│
├── queries/                         <- Folder to store .sql files used at some point in the modeling process   
│   ├── develop/                     <- Queries created in bulding process 
│   └── production/                  <- Clean queries used to production
|
├── environment.yml                  <- The environment file for reproducing the analysis environment, e.g.
│                                        generated with `conda env export --from-history --file environment.yml`
|
├── requirements.txt                 <- The requirements file for reproducing the analysis environment, e.g.
│                                        generated with `pip freeze > requirements.txt`
|
├── .gitignore                       <- Gitignore file 
|
├── install.md                       <- Instructions to configure virtual environments and install the package as a distributable 
|
├── app.py                           <- Application running with Gradio locally
|
├── main.py                          <- Main file to orchestrate re-trains and execution of source code stored in src folder
|
├── main.ipynb                       <- Like main.py but intended for testing before launching deployments
|
├── setup.py                         <- Defines project metadata, dependencies, and installation requirements for distribution.
|
└── run.sh                           <- Executable with predefined commands to run main.py file on a remote server
```

## Cloning this repository.

- To clone this repository using SSH run the next command in your git console
> `git clone git@github.com:johnma96/tuyabot-llm.git`
- To clone this repository using HTTPS run the next command in your git console
> `git clone https://github.com/johnma96/tuyabot-llm.git`

For more details see [Clone a repository](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/gitlab-basics/start-using-git.html#clone-a-repository).

## Setting up a virtual environment.

In order to not create conflics between your libraries and the requirements libraries for this project, we highly recomend you to create a new virtual environment to install the requirements libraries in there.

**Check out the installation guide [here](/install.md)**

For more details consult:
- Click [here](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) to see how to create a virtual environment in python.
- Click [here](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html) if you are using conda.

### Installing and updating project libraries.
The required libraries are listed in the file [`requirements.txt`](/requirements.txt) or [`environment.yml`](/environment.yml). **Please read [the installation guide](/install.md) information for greater detail.**
